My mom would kind of say if it's like if
it's meant to be, it's up to me. And I
think that she was always very
independent and she broke all of these
barriers in sport, but like it was never
a thing because it didn't even like
cross her mind that it was like a road
block. You know, it was just like you
just did it. And so I feel like that
definitely stemmed with me as far as
people say like, "Oh, you're so sure of
yourself and like confident." And I'm
like, "Well, because I I guess I don't
even see like
the road block. I'm just kind of like,
"We'll just do it."
>> [music]
>> Welcome back to The Deal. I'm Jason
Kelly. And I'm Alex Rodriguez. On
today's show, Jess Pegula, Alex, I am so
interested to talk to her. She's one of
the world's best tennis players right
now. She's [music] also a chief
architect around the business of tennis.
>> Well, that's what I'm really excited
about and I really want to dig in
>> [music]
>> into all aspects of the business of
tennis. And also, how much of the pie
are the players getting? That is the
question that she is working on right
now. Let's also not forget, she's a
member of one of the most influential
families in all of sports, the Pegulas.
[music] Of course, her parents, Kim and
Terry, own the Buffalo Bills and the
Buffalo Sabres. Coming up [music] next,
Jess Pegula.
Jess Pegula, really
such a pleasure to have you here with
us. We love tennis.
I'm going to confess on both of our
behalves. We have a lot of questions and
we may ask you [clears throat] some
really dumb questions about the business
of tennis. Um,
I would like to think it's because we're
just a proxy for our audience, but maybe
it's because
I'm not as smart as I want to be about
this game, even though I love it so
much. We're we're talking to you
a couple days removed from a tournament
win in Charleston for you.
Congratulations.
>> Thank you.
>> You played great. What I found so
fascinating, Alex, was
there's a a really interesting business
story behind the Charleston Open. Remind
us what was going on there with the the
prize money and everything cuz it's it's
a really significant moment, it feels
like, in the history of the sport.
>> Definitely. Um so last year I was, you
know, won the tournament back-to-back
years now. So last year after the
finals, they announced that they're
going to be equal prize money, which was
matching, so it's a WTA 500. So we have
like 250s, 500s, 1,000s, Grand Slams. So
uh 500 is they're usually very strong
events, not quite as big as a as a tour
1,000 event. Um but
everyone kind of has this perception
that like men and women it's equal prize
money. It is at the Slams, but it's
actually not at a lot of the other
events. So there's a big discrepancy
there. And so the tournament owner, Ben
Navarro, announced that he was going to
match basically the WTA 500 prize money
along with that of the ATP 500 level
tournaments. Um it's a big difference,
and so it was a an amazing announcement,
and I kind of joked like, "Oh man, you
couldn't have done it this year." But I
guess it it paid off because I was able
to win the tournament this year. So it
was a big step, and I think set a
standard very high for all the other
tournaments, and sometimes you need just
like that one person to do something to
kind of raise like that level of
commitment. Um so hopefully we start
seeing some of the other tournaments
kind of, you know, make their way to
that. So Jess, speaking right on that
point, and congrats on the win,
back-to-back, that's pretty awesome.
You know, when you talk about the big
three in American sports, you talk
football, NFL, MLB, and NBA basketball.
Overall, She's going to say NHL is the
fourth because she's an NHL owner. Alex,
come on.
>> the NHL, the big four, the big four.
>> [laughter]
>> You know, overall I got you there.
pretty close to 50-50 revenue of what
the owners take home and what the
players take home. Is there a position,
and I know you've been a big advocate
for the players, where do you see this?
Can you ever see this one day getting to
60-40?
Uh
>> [gasps]
>> I think it's tough because uh one, we
don't really have like a players' union.
We don't really have anyone that like
represents the players. And in a way, I
think tennis, we're very selfish cuz
we're individuals. We play individually,
and I think to that part, it's really
hard to get all of us as individual
independent people all on the same page
as far as that. And so, I don't I don't
really know if you'll ever see like a
strike or like just, you know, people
agree to not play. There's always been
talks of it, but like in tennis, you
know, you make your money a lot by
winning matches. You don't have a set
You don't get paid a salary or get paid
anything for just the year, you know?
So, I think that always changes
everyone's mind as far as like I have to
keep playing. I'm not going to take a
I'm not going to strike. I'm not going
to boycott. I'm not going to do all
these things. So, I I don't know if
we'll ever truthfully like looking now
just knowing how tennis players are and
how they have to be. I don't really know
if it'll ever quite get there, but I've
definitely been
in talks with a lot of the WTA and ATP
players as far as joining together to
just try to get a higher prize money
revenue, especially from the Grand
Slams. I think that's something that can
be done, and quite frankly, we've never
really had both the men and the women on
both sides actually come together, which
is super rare in any sport, because when
would that really ever happen? But
because it benefits both of us, it's
something that's been a topic,
especially this year, as far as just
asking for a little bit more, you know?
And I think that's something that you
have to You have to ask, you know? You
don't You don't know unless you ask. So,
I think that's just kind of something
that we're headed towards. Um hopefully
it gets higher, but it's definitely a
work in progress, and I think it's going
to take a lot of unity between a lot of
the top players from the ATP and the WTA
side.
Well, and it's also, I mean, and again,
I I'm
I'm interested in in geeking out a
little bit about the mechanics of this,
because
in addition to the independent
contractors,
there's also not a league in the same
way there is in the NBA, the NFL, the
NHL, or what You know, the the
tournaments themselves have different
business models, which allows a Ben
Navarro to say, "I'm going to do this in
Charleston,
but it's more of a like
people have to choose to follow him.
They're It's It's not a set thing,
right? They don't [laughter] have to.
So, let me ask you this,
when it comes to
equal pay,
the perception is It's like equal pay,
as you said, and that that is the case.
But, where are we in that evolution?
Because you've worked a lot on that in
terms of actual equal pay across the
board for men and women in tennis.
>> Yeah. You mean in Slams or in just like
all the other tournaments?
>> All the other tournaments.
>> Yeah. Um I think in the WTA 1000s, we've
seen a lot of them match equal prize
money now. I think Madrid is equal,
Miami's equal, Indian Wells is equal.
And again, it's just been something
that's been continuously starting to
happen and and grow. Um but I think a
lot of the lower-level tournaments are
still not there, and that's still a lot
of players that aren't really getting
paid the same. And I think where we just
want to see like the ecosystem of the
sport kind of continue to grow, because
that means our sport is going to
continue to grow and get better and
evolve. And again, it's I hope that with
Ben doing what he did kind of sets the
standard, because I do think it creates
like a healthy competition. I'm on a WTA
Player Council, so I see like more of
the tournament side, and I think setting
the standard is very high, and investing
in your event is like a really big deal,
because that's how you get players to
play. That's how you get them to come
back, and then hopefully, you know,
you're making more money, and so on and
so on, and you can make that equal prize
money. Cuz it's an It's been a process.
And it's an interesting thing. I mean, I
think about it from the perspective of
the players are the product, you know?
So, if like if the best players aren't
showing up, the revenue is not going to
be as high
for the tournament. I mean, it's just
not, cuz people aren't going to tune in,
they're not going to buy tickets,
they're not going to spend their money
there. I think like it's gotten so much
better, because one, I think players are
starting to see that. I do think our
sport I mean, I don't know is a little
bit more open as far as like to each
other about this stuff. I think
sometimes in tennis you're like
in like selfish of course, I don't mean
it in like a bad way, but you're in your
own little world, you know, because like
you said, you're not part of an
organization or a team. Like you are
like I run my own team basically. Like
who's my team? I control that. It's the
same with every other player. So I do
feel like that I've been able to talk to
a lot of players about it and they're
all for it. It's just kind of getting
everyone to be all for it at the same
time on the same page. And then also
not kind of burning out with it. I think
keeping that narrative going constantly
is something that's hard because, you
know, I think sometimes
it can get kind of tiring to talk about
it all the time. Players still want to
focus on like their careers and the
results and stuff like that. And so I
think you get a little burnt out and I
think that's kind of what they hope
happens, right? Like Yeah. They play the
long game. And so
>> They're going to wear you down.
>> Yeah, wear you down. And I think that's
where we've been trying to be a little
bit more open with keeping that
narrative going and it also goes into
like our season is way too long. And so
that's been a whole 'nother discussion.
I mean, we play like I mean, you you
baseball, you guys play a lot of games,
too.
We play all year.
>> Essentially 11 months a year.
>> Yeah, and so sometimes tournaments get a
little upset, but it's you can't play
every single week. Like with the travel,
you're traveling every single week.
You're going to different places,
different conditions, different
countries, uh depending on how you do,
if you're hurt. There's so many factors.
So I think that's also like a big part
of it that we're trying to change is
like how do we condense the season a
little bit because these players can't
keep up with it.
>> Jason, if you're not careful, you're
making one hell of a compelling case for
the players. [laughter]
And And Jason, I'm wondering if like And
And you being one of the great players
and one of the leaders of the sport,
>> Mhm. uh uh first of all, all your teams
would benefit cuz the more, you know,
money you guys make, the more there is
for your team as well. And I think all
the teams would align around that. But
I'm wondering if Billie Jean King, if
you approached us and how do we go about
this and can you set up a little
committee Mhm. you know, of both men and
women. I mean, she likes a good fight.
>> she likes [laughter] a good fight.
No, trust me. Billie is very supportive.
She's We're definitely not lacking any
support from Billie. I think she was one
of the first people I think we talked to
as far as like There's a lot of issues,
but like
she was like one of the first ones, and
she's great. Her and Alana, like, they
text me all the time, and they're
they're all for it. So, she's, I mean,
set the set the standard and the bar
very high for us. So, I think she's
definitely someone where we're like, "Do
you know, do you have our backs? Do you
support this?" And she's like, you know,
all gung-ho. I mean, she has so much
energy still. It's crazy. She's I mean,
she's unbelievable. I I I don't know if
I've ever encountered a force of nature
that quite like
quite like Billie Jean King. Um you've
been very interested and vocal about the
business of tennis for a long time. You
don't have to be. You you know, you
could just go out and play. So, what is
that process like where you
make a make a decision to
to really advocate and and to be a
leader,
you know, truly like in the lineage of
of Billie and and others who who've
really advocated not just for
themselves, but for other players.
It's been interesting. I don't think um
I you know, when I first got asked to
just be on like WTA Player Council,
like, I I only did it because a girl
retired, and they're like, "We need
someone to fill the spot." And they kind
of convinced me, and I was like, "I
don't know if this is for me." But I
think
>> The uh I've been on council like three
four year almost four years now, I
think. Like, right after COVID or right
Yeah. You were in your late 20s mid to
late 20s at that point. and I had no
idea about anything. And so, I actually
think that really helped because all of
a sudden, you understand more about how
things work and how there's definitely
two sides to because I think that's
important. I think also learned that
from my parents, too. Like, there
there's the player side, and there's
also like a business side. And sometimes
it isn't as black and white as people
think. And so, I think when you learn
that process, it becomes much more
clear. And I think the fact that
obviously I'm still a player advocating
for that. I I don't know. I've I gained
a lot of respect I think from a lot of
different players. I'm just I guess
trying to be somewhat of a voice and I
think it just naturally kind of
happened. I don't know if it's my
personality a bit, maybe my parents
obviously what they've done. Yeah. Um
and just being able to to think about
things pretty clearly I think from both
sides cuz you definitely get you know
one side where they're all pushing what
they want and then you get the player's
side where they don't want to hear
anything else. They just want to they
just want what they want and so
yeah, it was interesting. I just kind of
came into it but I would say being on
that player council kind of started that
where you just you learn. Yeah. So just
I I want to talk about your parents a
bit and and your family because as we
talked about earlier you know, truly one
of the first families of of the NA NFL
and and the NHL these days. I had a
great opportunity in 2020 uh actually
here in Miami to interview your mom and
you know, is just amazing insights into
the family business and you know, we've
been talking a lot about partnership and
relationships with players.
There is something special about
Buffalo, your hometown. You were you
were born there.
What are the lessons specifically you've
taken from them as you've thought about
your own business journey?
I would say um what my mom always says
is that it's just managing people. Mhm.
I think it's probably helped me a bit in
what I've had to do just as like
sometimes you have to adapt I think to
people's personalities or just like know
that like okay, this is how they are.
They're really good in this role but
like
maybe they're not the best to talk about
this subject or maybe it doesn't go as
well
as it should and you're like you you
have to like fit people with what
they're good at and I think that's
something that I've learned with them
and I think it was a learning process
for them as well.
>> Yeah. And I think that's something also
people maybe don't realize is that like
owners of teams there's only so many in
the world. You don't you're not there's
no experience for that until it happens
and you like learn by owning that team.
Like you don't own a team
when you're growing up and then like you
like learn about it. Right.
>> You like you have to buy the team. Like
you just get the team and it's like
here's like I don't know like figure it
out. For those listening that
[clears throat] there were that was a
knowing nod.
>> [laughter]
>> For from Alex Rodriguez but like Aren't
you learning on So learning on the job.
Yes, you do.
>> Cuz if you think about it like no one
else you don't own it it's just it's a
niche thing, you know, you're successful
in other things but it's
>> So speaking of that let's go back to
when you first heard your mom and dad
were buying the Buffalo Bills.
Tell our audience
your feelings. Was it more nervous
excitement like here we go or mom and
dad what are we doing? So
yeah, the Sabres it was like very fun.
But then I feel like when the NFL came
around it was like so much bigger in a
sense Nothing's bigger than the NFL. two
teams and then NFL like owning an NFL
like it's just crazy. So I think it
definitely I don't know it kind of blew
up our world a little bit. I didn't feel
it as much with the Sabres but I think
when we bought the Bills it definitely
like blew up. And your mom took such a
strong role for from the beginning,
right?
>> I mean my dad I think always looked at
it more as like he worked so hard all
his life like this is like an amazing
thing that I get to do this is like
I won't say a hobby that's not great to
say but like it's it was fun. Like he
loves sports. He loves athletes. He
loves learning from coaches and trying
to like do all these things. My mom was
I think more of the business side where
she loved the business, the fan
experience. Like she loved going to all
these different games and seeing what
all these different teams did and how
did they make the fan experience like
truly great for them. She loved that
aspect of it. Yeah. So which is great. I
mean cuz they were both able to kind of
take what they loved
and maybe not overstep each other in
that sense
of kind of again learning how to to run
a sports organization. Do you see
yourself I mean your older sister Laura
I believe has like taken a bigger role
in in the teams. Um is that something
you might eventually do? Like what what
do you see down the road when it comes
to to the family business and sports?
>> Yeah, it was funny actually when I was
like 15 I like got really into hockey
for whatever reason.
Like really into hockey and so I always
wanted to be the first female GM. I
don't think that's going to happen but
>> [laughter]
>> that was like my whole thing and so I've
always wanted to be involved in sports.
I love sports. I think it just like it
gave me everything and made me like who
I am. It taught me so many lessons and I
I couldn't imagine like not having
sports in my life. So I definitely think
in some aspect whether it's tennis or
hockey or football I definitely would
love to be involved. I have no idea like
what that entails. Yeah.
>> Um I think my dad would definitely like
me to be involved but he knows tennis is
the priority right now. So I think um
he's very cognizant of that and like is
always like no you need to focus on like
what you need to focus on now. But yeah,
it's it's something I think that I've
I've wanted to do and I think being an
athlete I mean I don't know if maybe you
can relate like I don't know I'm I'm
definitely going to miss that like
competitive side.
And I think I can get channel some of
that through a different way but I would
love to still be involved in sports,
yeah.
>> It's a pretty good channel I think. I
mean I've seen you court side. You get
pretty into it. It's spot [laughter] on.
It's spot on and I know you're
competitive but I I do think to Jason's
point that there's no better way to get
a fix um when you're still competitive.
You just don't wake up as sore which is
nice.
>> [laughter]
>> You can just watch it
um and it gets easier when you're not
you know playing but I think you'll
you'll do great and it's pretty awesome
to have that you know.
And this also brings your families
together. Like I have two daughters, you
have a sister
and my daughters thought I was crazy
when we bought these teams.
Um my partner Mark has two daughters as
well and his daughters probably thought
the same thing but now they're all
enjoying it and it brings the family
that much closer together.
>> something too that we have when we
bought the Sabres
specifically like we definitely came
together a lot more as a family cuz like
you know, I mean
it kind of not I don't want to say
forces you but in a way like you're
excited together, you're like sharing it
together.
And I think you know, that's what my
parents wanted as well. They wanted us
to like do this together and celebrate
that. So I think again it's something
not everyone gets to do. It's special.
So I think we definitely appreciate
that aspect [clears throat] of it.
>> Yeah, I mean it's interesting and I mean
it does become cuz there's a
I don't know there there's a shared
mission about it that that must be
really fun for your family I would guess
and stressful.
>> It's stressful I was going [laughter] to
say definitely stressful but it's it's a
lot of fun. Even when it gets stressful
I think you always try to come back to
that point that this is it's fun and
you're doing something special together
and you have to appreciate that.
>> Well, and I think I mean Buffalo is a is
a very special place that loves its
teams so much and so [laughter] there is
like Great great fans.
>> Unbelievable I mean you know, Bills
Mafia is is a real thing.
>> Bills fans.
>> I think you can't get away from them.
And I play tournaments all over the
world and there's still like people in
other countries that are like go Bills,
go Sabres. It's crazy. It's amazing.
>> to be to be fair, you help feed it a
little bit too because you know, you're
I remember was it at the Australian Open
that was a catch?
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> I have to throw little things out there
sometimes. Yeah, I'm always in Australia
during the playoffs so I've had some
interesting Australia memories as far as
the last couple playoff years but yeah,
I try to I think I try to build that
bridge especially cuz there's not a lot
of tennis in Buffalo virtually none. And
I'm like me and Jimmy Arias are like the
only people from Buffalo that like play
tennis and it's to to our level. So to
be able to like bridge the gap there and
create new fans Um, it's really cool.
>> Well, here here's an idea. We are on the
deal. You're building a new stadium in
Buffalo. Maybe you can host a tennis
tournament inside your new building.
See, that
>> [laughter]
>> That would be actually really That would
be interesting. I don't know
>> It would be great. Not in the winter.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
no. Definitely not if it's remotely cold
out. All right, let's do our rapid fire.
So, this is just first thing that first
things that that pops into your head.
We'll just bounce back and forth. You
had to pick one to play one surface for
the rest of your life. Hard court, clay,
grass? Hard court.
Favorite tennis player of all time? Ugh,
that's so tough. I think probably Roger
Federer. Most memorable match of your
tennis career? I would say when I
qualified at the US Open for the first
time.
Qualifying at a slam is really hard. You
have to win three matches to get into
the main draw, but you're there at the
tournament playing. There's crowds,
there's people, all this stuff. Good
money, um, and I just remember I won in
three sets and I [clears throat] wasn't
feeling great that day, whether it was
nerves or the heat, I don't know, but I
just remember I got through that and it
was like a very big like mental kind of
break for me.
>> Cuz that's the show. The US Open is the
show. Yeah, and I was younger and I I
came back and I won this match for the
It was the last round of qualifying, so
to get to the main draw. And I just I
think I had lost a couple third rounds
like last round of qualifying before.
So, it was kind of like monkey off my
back, kind of a big mental break through
for me. It was It was a lot of things.
What's the most important storyline
going into Roland Garros, either for you
or for tennis? For tennis, I just know
that
Iga Świątek has been working. She hired
a new coach. Um, he used to work with
Nadal. And then like there's all these
videos now of her and Nadal like on the
court and all of us are like, oh boy.
She's Her clay is her best surface.
She's won the French Roland Garros a lot
of times, so I would say that's like a
big storyline right now cuz we're all
like, oh no. Like we're all in trouble.
Like
>> The king of clay advising the queen of
clay. Yeah, exactly. We're like kind of
panicking. Um, so yeah, that I think
that'll be really uh, really
interesting. But hopefully I I played
good tennis last year, so I'm
I feel like I could be
a little underdog on the clay this year.
Grand Slam you want to win the most?
Probably US Open.
Who's the Is there an athlete whose
business career has inspired you the
most? Who is it?
I would say Maria Sharapova is very
interesting. Like, she was an insane
competitor, like, fierce on the court,
loved fashion, loved business. Like, I
thought it was cool how she was able to
kind of love all of that and be super
successful at all of it. And I think she
just has a really cool, like, confidence
about her with it. You know, I see her
on Shark Tank and I see her doing all
these other cool things. Um, you see her
on The Deal. Yeah, she was on here.
Yeah. I see her like doing all these
like really cool, um, ventures and so we
stuff that she's passionate about, stuff
that she likes, and just knowing her
personality, I Yeah, I think she would
be a little bit of an inspiration there.
>> And we've looked at deals together.
Like, she's the real deal. She walks the
walk. It's not her team. When she shows
up in a meeting, it's her by herself.
She's like very quietly like confident.
Funny, too. Like, makes like funny
comments, like, kind of dry. And I like
relate to that, so I like that. All
right, he's He's very aware cuz she made
fun of his shoes. Yes, he did. See,
like, yeah, I could see that.
>> [laughter]
>> Go go for it. I just All right, here we
go. Best piece of advice you've ever
been given
>> [music]
>> and who gave it to you? I guess my mom
will kind of say if it's like if it's
meant to be, it's up to me. And I think
that she was always very independent and
she broke all of these barriers in
sport, but like it was never a thing
because it didn't even like cross her
mind that it was like a roadblock. You
know, it was just like you just did it.
Her kind of setting that message to not
just me, but like our whole family and
my brothers and sisters, I think helped
the most. Yeah. All right, so last
question, what do the Bills have to do
to win a Super Bowl in '27 and what do
the Sabres need to do to win the Stanley
Cup?
>> Oh my gosh, that's a tough question.
Hard-hitting questions here.
>> Yeah, um, well, the Sabres honestly,
they just need to keep doing what
they're doing. I like
>> First playoff appearance in 15 years.
>> Like came out of kind of nowhere.
Everyone's kind of
not kind of definitely freaking out and
I think just so fired up. The Bills, I
mean, we put ourselves in good position.
I always say just keep putting yourself
in the same position and kind of
learning from I don't know whatever you
think you have to change, but Josh is an
amazing leader.
>> Yeah, and Josh is the guy right?
Exactly. I don't really think I would
tell him
like anything different. Like he's the
man.
>> And that's Josh Allen, the quarterback
of the Buffalo Bills. Oh my [laughter]
god. He's learning. He's learning every
day. What a lifelong learner you are,
Alex Rodriguez. Uh Jess, this has been
so much fun. Thank you for joining us.
>> you. I appreciate it.
>> [music]